### Architecture
#### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA). 
For the customer-facing website, we used mainly Express HTML and JavaScript for front-end development.  We built several pages with HTML and used JavaScript routers and controllers to navigate and render each page.  For parts of the project, we also used handlebars, a templating language that compiles templates into JavaScript functions.  The customer-facing website makes calls to the server then renders the page once until an action is taken.  The admin-facing SPA uses Angular, which does most of the work in the browser and renders the page dynamically.  Because the work is done by the browser, the SPA can be faster and more efficient to the server.  The SPA uses different components or services rather than different pages.  Most components include an HTML file as well as a TypeScript file to control and navigate the page, which is similar to the Express website, although they are done very differently.
#### Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
Databases are necessary for most applications to store and organize data.  The reason we used MongoDB for this project is because MongoDB or NoSQL databases are generally more flexible than SQL databases.  While MongoDB is schema-less, it is possible create schemas using Mongoose and it is quite easy to so, which was ideal for our project.

### Functionality
#### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON is a file and data interchange format that stores and transmits data using key-value pairs.  JSON is derived from JavaScript and can be parsed and converted into a JavaScript object.  Data is stored in the MongoDB database as JSON documents, but it is possible to create models or schemas using Mongoose, like this project did for trips.  JSON is a lightweight, readable format to store object data necessary for the application.
#### Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
The best example I can recall from the full stack process where I refactored code was using handlebars to recreate the HTML pages on the Express website.  The code was mostly the same with only a few minor changes, but one significant change was creating partials for the header and footer to insert in each file using handlebars expressions.  The end result was nearly identical, but creating the reusable partials makes it easier to create new pages because it can be done with less code.  While I can’t think of other examples involving refactoring in the project, having reusable code that be used for multiple pages or functions generally feels easier and more organized.

### Testing
#### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
Full stack applications use APIs to connect the front end to the back end of an application.  APIs use HTTP methods to retrieve information from the back end or update information in the database.  The four HTTP methods we used to build our application were GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.  The GET method retrieves information from a resource in the database, the POST method adds a resource to the database, the PUT method updates or replaces a resource in the database, and the DELETE method deletes a resource from the database.  An endpoint is a location where the API can access the resources necessary for an HTTP method.  In our application, the endpoints were URLs.

For security, we added login features to our application.  A user can log in to the application using a specific password that is hashed and stored in a database so that it cannot be accessed.  When the user logs in, the password is hashed again and checked against the hashed password in the database.  When the user logs in, a token is generated and any features that require authentication to access will check for the token.

### Reflection
#### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
Prior to this course, I had very minimal experience in developing web applications.  I had studied how web applications work to some degree, but I had very little practice developing them.  This course introduced me to some different tools and frameworks for web development.  I also learned some basic JavaScript and gained some experience with HTML and MongoDB, which I have worked with a little bit before.  

Understanding full stack development can be useful in almost any field.  Whether developing a social media application, an online game, or just a company website for customer convenience, the skills for web development are in high demand.  Even in jobs that don’t necessarily involve developing web applications, understanding how they work, being familiar with the languages, and having some experience with the various tools used to create them could be beneficial and give me an advantage as a job candidate.

